# The Virtual Analog Moog Ladder

  This project was an undertaking inspired by my passion for analog filters in modular synthesis. The sound of the Moog transistor ladder filter is one of the most classic synth sounds. It first caught my eye (or ear) when I used the vintage ARP 2600 in the TIMARA studios at Oberlin Conservatory. Famously or infamously, that filter is roughly the same as the Moog ladder. The prevailing goal of this project was to understand how the nonlinearities of analog circuits are modeled in the digital domain.

  This project was originally done for Prof. Eli Stine's DSP for Electronic Musicians course at Oberlin Conservatory. It was comprised of a survey of recent papers which proposed digital models for the Moog ladder filter as well as implementations of those models in Max/MSP's native gen~ environment. The original paper is included in this repository and is highly recommended to be read as a companion with the Max patch.
  
  The ultimate takeaway from this project was that virtual analog models must be careful with how they map the output amplitude of the analog filter to the model's output. Inconsistency in volume was the biggest concern with these models because it would lead to clipping or require a lot of post-processing gain. In addition, the frequency responses of a lot of these filters varied in accuracy from mostly linear to not even close. Likewise, the Q/resonance factor was never the same between any of the models. In their implementations, the resonance was roughly scaled so that their effect would be transparent at a normal volume. 
  
  As such, a future research concern is finding arbitrary linear mappings from these nonlinear parameters. For frequency, there is a stronger definition of what is linear because it can be directly observed. However, resonance is a complicated thing. In the linear models for this filter, the resonance would almost unilaterally trend towards infinity in amplitude when pushed into self-oscillation. Taming the resonance is key to taming the self-oscillating feature of these filters. Resonance, in a non-linear filter system, tends to change in the frequency of its peak at different signal volumes. In addition, aliasing is a major concern for non-linear audio systems. Finding methods to reduce the frequency response discrepancies, increase the similarity in sonic qualities between the digital and analog forms of the filter, and to decrease the amount of oversampling needed to create a clean signal will help create the future of musical digital filter design.
  
  
